# Artificial Intelligence CS374
  This is a repository for my Computer Science level 374, Artificial Intelligence, class. It contains three folders currently; solving, playing, and Project1. The folders contain some homework assignments and the projects that I completed. There is a huge emphasis on Object Orientented Programming throughout these assignments as you can see by the creation of Objects and their inheritance of the properties of several different classes. 
  
## Solving
  The solving folder is for puzzles in which an "agent" will solve for us in the best way possible according to the algorithm. The folder is broken down into four seperate directories. Those four folders are agents, puzzles, tests, and utils. The agents folder contains all the algorithms that I have written in order to solve the actual puzzles. The algorithms I used are Breadth First Search, Hill-Climbing, A-Star, Annealing, and "Wander". The wander agent however is not intended to work well since it just randomly choose a legal move. The puzzles folder contains all the configuration of different puzzles and their specific characteristics. The puzzles we solved are the classic Tiles game, in where you are given the numbers 1-8 on a 3x3 board and we must get the numbers in order. A queens puzzle which is an 8x8 where queen pieces start on the diagonals. The goal is to situate all the queen pieces so that there are none in the same row, column, or diagonal of eachother. The final puzzle is a simple maze in which the agent needs to get to the end point. The tests folder contains the test cases in which those algorithims are tested all across the puzzles. The layout of the test files are puzzleName_ algorithmName.py. Finally, the utils folder contains the framework for the Puzzle classes and for the Agents. It also contains a structures file in which all the data structures we need are defined (Queue, PriorityQueue, and SearchTree).
  
## Playing
  The playing directory is for two solving agents facing off against eachother or for a human to play against the computer player. It has a similar structure but the four folders are called games, players, tests, and utils. In the games folder we have Tic Tac Toe in which two agents will always tie if they are making the "best" move everytime. We also have a stones game, in which there are a certain number of stones and each player can take 1, 2, or 3 stones from the pile. The player that picks up the last stone loses. In the players folder, we have a minimax and a human player. The minimax is designed where there is a Minimum player (-1) and a Maximum player (+ 1). The maximum player starts at negative infinity and tries to maximize its game value while the minimum player starts at positive infinity and tries to minimize its game value. The human player allows human input so that we can play against the computer player. The tests folder is in the same format as it was for solving. The utils folder only contains the framework this time in which the Game class and Player class are defined in. 
 
## Project 1
  The project 1 folder contains the very first project we were assigned. We were told to pick any game we want and run an appropriate algorithm on it in order to solve it or play it. Once we get it to work, we then have to upgrade that algorithm in some form to speed it up and decide the moves faster so that we can increase the size of the board and still solve it in a reasonable amount of time. The game I decided to make is called Light's Out. The rules are you have certain tiles in which they are turned off (represented by a 0) and tiles that are turned on (represented by a 1). The goal is to turn off all the lights. However, whenever you click on a "light" it changes the light you click on and it's neighbors (not the diagonals). To clarify, if a tile is clicked on and it is turned off and all its neighbors are turned off, you will result in all those tiles being turned on, and vice versa. 
  
  
    
    
    
    
    
    
